Hey.
You can fly even higher.
Shouyou!
Heya!
Heya.
Hey, Kageyama!
Hey!
Hinata, Kageyama! You guys made it back in one piece!
Heya, Sugawara.
Heya.
Heya, heya.
You guys'd better not have been fighting as soon as you get back.
Nah, they were already fighting when I brought the key over.
That's way too fast.
Well, I mean, that basically defines them! Right?
Kageyama, how was the youth training camp?
Yeah, that!
How was the All-Japan?
The floor wasn't made out of wooden planks.
You're talking about the court?
How was the volleyball?
There were crazy-good guys from all over attending, right?
Yes, everyone was really good.
Yeah, them. More about them.
Hinata, you didn't try to sneak into the All-Japan Youth Camp, did you?
Well, I, uh...
Apparently, he didn't try because he'd get arrested.
Arrested?
Tsukishima!
He was actually planning to sneak into the Tokyo camp.
Nice effort, Shouyou!
Did you grow a little at your camp too, Tsukishima?
Yeah, I guess... Did you get taller?
Are you his aunt or something?
He'd better not have grown taller in five days.
Heya!
Yo.
I-I'm sorry for all of the trouble I've caused!
I mean, even if you stayed here, you'd be worthless on your own.
Oh, shut up!
You guys don't need to keep reminding me!
I only said it once.
Tsukki! Did you get taller?
Shut up, Yamaguchi.
It sure was quiet for a couple of days.
Yeah.
Their fighting makes me feel at ease.
Clench your fists tight enough to leave marks
Now, go bask in the orange glow
!
Haikyuu Haikyuu Haikyuu !
Haikyuu
Sweating harder than ever has led us to the unknown territory of this high stage
The crowd's on their side and our chances are slim, so we could just skip out
But if the fear of getting hurt is keeping your wings in check
You may as well be a stuffed bird
If a person tries to live their life without getting a taste of their dreams and passions
They'll be torn by the heartbreak
But our goosebumps just won't go away
Our very souls are burning bright Beyond our limits
Awaits a land Of thrilling competition
Unleash everything you've got
Winning or losing doesn't even seem to matter
When you're in the zone and everything flows
In glorious slow-motion Now, go all-out!
Episode Six: Enhancements Episode Six: Enhancements
Episode Six: Enhancements
Let me help!
Thanks!
Right around here?
Yeah.
Hey, what's that tape for?
We're splitting the net into nine parts.
This whole past week, the team has been working on serves,
and Mr. Ukai wants them to confirm where they want their serves to go.
Like, see what happens and where the ball falls when they hit that location.
70%...
Nice aim!
Yes!
Talk about straightforward!
Damn it. He got it so easily.
Nishinoya couldn't receive it.
Nishinoya's not great with overhanded receives.
Then couldn't he have just dug out the ball like usual?
Jump float serves are hard to receive because they're so unpredictable.
The best way to counter them is to position yourself further forward and catch the ball with an overhand pass.
There's a good chance that we'll be facing stronger opponents who can use jump float serves.
It doesn't hurt to come up with a few ways to counter those.
Great serve, Kinoshita.
Right?
What about yours?
I'm gonna stick to floaters.
I can do it too...
Out.
Yamaguchi's really pumped too.
I didn't hit it as hard as I wanted.
Is it going to be out of bounds?
There are times when Hinata pulls off superhuman moves,
but what he did just now...
actually seemed like he meant to do it.
Great job.
Apparently, it's supposed to snow tonight.
Ugh, seriously?
Hey, Kageyama.
What do you mean by I can "fly higher"?
Come hit some open sets with me.
You guys are tired from the training camps, aren't you?
No overworking yourselves.
J-Just a little bit, please?
Just a little.
Yessir!
Your jumps are always just "boing, boing."
Wait, what?
But amazing jumps...
are like "bam."
Basically, your job is to scuttle around.
Don't say it like that!
So, like... you sorta jump on a whim like, "boing, boing."
This isn't anything new, but he sucks at sound effects.
So far, they've been doing the trick,
and I'm sure you're doing your best during matches.
But...
I know that you can jump higher.
When you jump, where do you put your weight?
Where?
My feet, right?
What part of your feet, you moron?!
Well, I never really thought about it!
Really?! So you were just flying that high without thinking about it, you nitwit?!
Wait, why am I getting yelled at?!
Consistent, huge jumps give you more freedom to react when you're in midair.
And when you make those jumps,
you hear the sound of your feet kicking off the floor.
You think they'll keep it at "just a little"?
It looks like it'll start snowing any moment now.
You actually believed their "just a little," Daichi?
Shut up.
Wait. Where are Hinata and Kageyama?
They said they'd be done in just a little bit.
It's impressive.
What is?
I can get feeling like you're raring to go after going to a training camp,
but I'd prefer to take a little break afterward.
How much does that kid love volleyball?
But...
am I the only one who thinks that Kageyama's had a scowl on his face ever since he came back?
One more time!
Yeah, it's amazing.
The height and positioning are perfect.
And he does it every single time.
He really is good.
Hey!
Your jump's drifting again!
Put all of your weight on the balls of your feet!
There's a huge difference when you're actually thinking about that!
The balls of my feet...
Concentrate on the momentum of the approach, and then...
jump!
Go home!
Nice spike!
Something wrong?
Oh, no.
It just seems like...
Ever since he came back from the training camp, there are times where Hinata gets super quiet.
I think...
that when Koganegawa was setting for you, you were hitting at a higher spot.
I'm jumping like I'm supposed to, thanks.
Really?
Maybe I just imagined it, then.
Kageyama.
Yes, sir?
I mean, I've technically heard about how the camp went, but...
How was it really?
You know... Is something bothering you?
Nope, sir.
I see.
What do you think "Goody Two-Shoes" means?
So someone said that to you?
Yes.
Another setter at the camp said that to me.
I shouldn't be surprised, but that camp definitely must've had some hard hitters.
Nothing beats a set that's easy for the spiker to hit.
That's what Gramps always told us.
I'm certain you're doing that,
so there's no reason for you to hesitate.
They should be here any minute now.
Yeah.
Asahi, you're not scared anymore, are you?
I couldn't ask for better opponents.
Not to mention, there's something I want to test out.
Huh?
Miyagi Prefectural Karasuno High School
Haikyuu!!
Thanks for having us!
Thanks!
I see they're as intimidating as ever.
No locking on.
Hinata!
Kogane!
Tsukki!
Thank you for coming today.
Congratulations on making the spring tournament.
All our boys are pumped up today.
Thank you!
We look forward to playing you!
You'd better not hold back just because it's a practice match.
Right! You got it!
When Koganegawa was setting for you, you were hitting at a higher spot.
Gather 'round!
Date Tech's blocking is definitely the best in the prefecture.
Probably even one of the best in the country.
I heard they've gotten even better since the spring tournament prelims.
We definitely don't have enough time to get our blocking up to their level.
Listen up.
Date Tech's blocking has gotten even better in the last six months.
Get familiar with those walls.
That way you won't panic when you face similar walls during nationals.
Right!
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Team Captain Team Captain Second-year
Second-year Second-year Futakuchi
Futakuchi Futakuchi Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Team Captain
Team Captain Second-year Second-year
Second-year Futakuchi Futakuchi
Futakuchi Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Team Captain Team Captain
Second-year Second-year Second-year
Futakuchi Futakuchi Futakuchi
Date Tech Date Tech Second-year
Second-year Futakuchi Futakuchi
Second-year Second-year Futakuchi
Futakuchi Futakuchi Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Second-year
Second-year Second-year Aone Aone
Aone Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Second-year Second-year Second-year
Aone Aone Aone Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Second-year
Second-year Second-year Obara
Obara Obara Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Second-year Second-year
Second-year Obara Obara Obara
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Second-year Second-year Second-year
Obara Obara Obara Date Tech
Date Tech Second-year Date Tech
Second-year Obara Obara Obara
Second-year Second-year Obara
Obara Obara Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech First-year First-year
First-year Koganegawa Koganegawa
Koganegawa Date Tech Date Tech
First-year Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Second-year Second-year
Second-year Onagawa Onagawa
Onagawa Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Second-year Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Second-year
Second-year Onagawa Onagawa
Onagawa Onagawa Onagawa Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech First-year
First-year First-year Fukiage
Fukiage Fukiage Date Tech
First-year First-year Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech First-year
First-year First-year Sakunami
Sakunami Sakunami Date Tech
Date Tech Date Tech First-year
Date Tech Date Tech Date Tech
First-year First-year Sakunami
First-year Sakunami Sakunami
Sakunami
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
Team Captain Team Captain Third-year
Third-year Third-year Sawamura
Sawamura Sawamura Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno Team Captain
Team Captain Third-year Third-year
Third-year Sawamura Sawamura
Sawamura Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Team Captain Team Captain
Third-year Third-year Third-year
Sawamura Sawamura Sawamura
Karasuno Karasuno Third-year
Third-year Sawamura Sawamura
Third-year Third-year Sawamura
Karasuno Karasuno Third-year
Third-year Third-year Azumane
Azumane Azumane Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Third-year Third-year
Third-year Azumane Azumane Azumane
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
Third-year Third-year Third-year
Azumane Azumane Azumane Karasuno
Third-year Third-year Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Second-year Second-year
Second-year Nishinoya Nishinoya
Nishinoya Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Second-year Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno Second-year
Second-year Nishinoya Nishinoya
Nishinoya Nishinoya Nishinoya
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
Second-year Second-year Second-year
Tanaka Tanaka Tanaka Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno Second-year
Second-year Second-year Tanaka
Tanaka Tanaka Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Second-year Second-year
Second-year Tanaka Tanaka Tanaka
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno First-year
First-year First-year Kageyama
Kageyama Kageyama Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno First-year
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
First-year First-year Kageyama
First-year Kageyama Kageyama
Kageyama Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno First-year First-year
First-year Hinata Hinata Hinata
Karasuno Karasuno Karasuno
First-year First-year First-year
Hinata Hinata Hinata Karasuno
Karasuno Karasuno First-year
First-year First-year Hinata
Hinata Hinata Karasuno Karasuno
First-year Karasuno Karasuno
First-year First-year First-year
Tsukishima Tsukishima Tsukishima
First-year Karasuno Karasuno
Karasuno First-year First-year
First-year First-year Tsukishima
Tsukishima Tsukishima
Let's have a good match!
Date Tech Date Tech Karasuno Karasuno
Nishinoya!
Got it!
Whoa, Hinata's fast!
Is that the rumored super fast attack?!
Bunch...
read blocking!
Our fast back row attack usually gets only one blocker, if any at all.
Not to mention, they even used Hinata as a decoy.
They pretty much had three blockers.
They all blocked!
Talk about lightning-fast reflexes!
Just like Tsukishima did during our match with Shiratorizawa,
great blocks apply a lot of stress not only to the spikers, but to the setter too.
For Kageyama,
this might be a much harsher match than the one against Shiratorizawa.
Date Tech Date Tech Karasuno Karasuno All right!
We did it!
Taunt us, will you?
A triple block...
I'm sure Kageyama wanted to get through that high triple block on the first try.
That brazen jerk.
Looks like he tried a little too hard.
Damn it. I was sure they were going to follow Hinata.
Let's see...
The way that Date Tech jumps for their blocks is read blocking.
That's when they jump after seeing the set, right?
And their formation...
They use the bunch shift, right?
Yeah.
Bunch as in "bunch up."
For bunch shifting, the blockers bunch in the middle so they can move wherever the opponents might attack,
and that they counter it with as many people as possible.
Bunch (Up) Shift Bunch (Up) Shift
But since they're bunched up in the middle, it's harder to counter fast attacks from either end of the court.
Up until now, we, and most of our opponents, have used a spread shift.
Spread means to "spread out,"
so in this formation, the blockers spread out across the whole net.
Spread (Out) Shift Spread (Out) Shift
It's not the best formation for fast attacks in the middle,
but it's be able to apply at least one blocker to an attack anywhere on the court.
It sounds like the spread shift would have a higher probability of success.
Since they're evenly spread out.
Evenly spread out, huh?
True.
But when read blockers are experienced with bunch blocking,
they're pretty damn scary.
Daichi!
Gonna break through the middle!
Their goal is to always build multiple walls anywhere along the net.
That's...
the bunch read blocking strategy.
Nice spike!
They managed to get a finger on the very first one.
And there were two blockers ready.
The pressure you feel when you've got multiple blockers on you...
is intense.
Nice spike!
Date Tech Date Tech Karasuno Karasuno
Give it all you've got!
Right.
Pants!
Got it!
I see that they're still insanely fast at scooping up the ball.
Damn!
Date Tech's blocks are so damn cool!
They moved to the side so fast!
Not to mention, two of them bunched up so fast.
Yeah!
Sorry about that.
It was a perfectly fine set.
Just now, I thought an attack from the right was our best bet.
Setting aside if that was actually the best decision or not,
the pressure I felt just now definitely affected my actions.
Even if it was only a little.
Just now, Date Tech's block actually made me choose anything but the middle.
Even watching as an amateur, Date Tech's blocks are terrifying.
Blockers and setters continue battling even before and after the attack.
It's a battle to see who can apply the most pressure.
This is great.
Playing with talented players feels so good.
Date Tech Date Tech Karasuno Karasuno Obara!
Got it!
Kogane!
My bad!
That was an intense setter dump!
Left!
Azumane!
Looking good...
My bad!
I touched it!
Oh wow.
I guess Karasuno does have a blocker.
Futakuchi!
A tip!
Rolling...
Thunder!
Nice one, Nishinoya!
Nice receive!
Nishinoya!
You're in the way!
What?!
So what if the pressure's on?
I don't need any help from on high
So what if I'm an egotist?
I just want to win, I don't have a reason why
I'll take on every challenge
I'll throw off any shadows of doubt
This is my chance to overcome my limits
I've gone all-out Conquered my fears
Turned them into conviction
Now fly high, higher, higher, to the top
Being so torn at the taste of defeat
Shed the tears that let our potential flower
If you try to give up, I'll just laugh it off
I don't know the meaning of the phrase
If you say it's too hard, I'll just laugh it off
Episode Seven: Return Episode Seven: Return
Episode Seven: Return Next time: "Return."